`messages` ++"array"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span> - Add description here.

??? child "Show properties"

    `additional_messages` ++"object"++
    
    Add description here.

    ??? child "Show properties"

        `role` ++"string"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The role of the messages author, in this case `assistant`.
        
        ---

        `content` ++"string | array"++
        
        The contents of the assistant message.  
        
        ---

        `refusal` ++"string | null"++
        
        The refusal message by the assistant.
        
        ---

        `name` ++"string"++
        
        An optional name for the participant. Provides the model information to differentiate between participants of the same role.

    ---

    `tool_calls` ++"array"++ - Add description here.

    ??? child "Show properties"

        `id` ++"string"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span> 
        
        The ID of the tool call.
        
        ---

        `type` ++"string"++  <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The type of the tool. Currently, only function is supported.
        
        ---

        `function` object <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The function that the model called.
        
        ---

        `name` ++"string"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The name of the function to call.
        
        ---

        `arguments` ++"string"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.

    ---

    `tool message` ++"object"++ -  Add description here.

    ??? child "Show properties"

        `role` ++"string"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The role of the messages author.
  
        ---

        `content` ++"string | array"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        The contents of the tool message.

        ---

        `tool_call_id` ++"string"++ <span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>
        
        Tool call that this message is responding to.

---

`model` ++"string"++<span class="required" markdown>++"required"++</span>

ID of the model to use. See the model endpoint compatibility table for details on which models work with the Chat API.

---

`store` ++"boolean | null"++

Whether or not to store the output of this chat completion request for use in our model distillation or evals products. Defaults to `false`.
